so every business from the smallest
startup to the largest corporation in
the world has five fundamental Parts if
you want to create a business or
interviewing for your first job or
interviewing for your first big
promotion understanding this is a
superpower it's so exciting and fun Josh
Kaufman the world famous business Expert
entrepreneur and best-selling author
Renown for his practical approach to
mastering business productivity and
Rapid skill acquisition this is the
foundation of every business plan that
has or ever will exist so Step One is
value creation find those important
unmet needs and then focus on meeting
those is this enough of a problem for
you to pay money to solve it how do you
find out if there's a big enough market
for your idea the easiest best thing to
do is just step two then marketing and
humans have five drives the drive to
acquire to bond to learn to feel to
defend and the more drives that you hook
into the more attractive the business
offer is going to be so what is step
three the third part of every business
is the fourth part is particularly
important which is and the fifth part is
what a lot of people struggle with but
I'm here to help you so the fifth part
is Josh The Narrative out in the market
is you have to do 10,000 hours to learn
anything you're telling me it's actually
20 hours is the key yes or 40 minutes a
day for about a month so how do I do
that then the best way to approach this
is to start with that's the secret
congratulations Dio gang we've made some
progress 63% of you that listen to this
podcast regularly don't subscribe which
is down from
69% our goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guest get
thank you and enjoy this episode
[Music]
Josh why why why did you write a book
called the personal MBA it's a world
class Business book that sold almost a
million copies so far it's a real iconic
book in the category but why why did you
feel compelled to write that book
because I can tell by the thickness of
it it took you a long time it did so
there must have been some sort of
personal motivation that was pretty
strong to write that book sure uh a
couple of things um curiosity
and persistence and I was solving my own
problem um so one of the things that
that happened is right after school I
got a job at a big company and I was
working with a lot of people who had
just graduated from top 15 business
programs um I got this job straight out
of undergrad I had no idea what I was
doing and I really wanted to learn like
what what are what are we doing here
what is what is business how does it
work what's important to know what
what's not important to know and so one
of the things that I tried to do with
the personal MBA um and and one of the
the reasons like how the project got
started was I figured that there was
there was a book written by a business
school professor in the 1950s or
something and I just needed to go out
and find that book and read that book
and then I would understand the
fundamentals then I would understand the
basics of of what it is that that we're
all doing here
and I looked and I looked and I read and
I read and I I couldn't find it and so
at a certain
point that I had essentially spent
months reading just going through
category after category just trying to
understand for myself what businesses
are how businesses work and at a certain
point I realized like this is important
to me and there's something that should
exist in the world that for some reason
doesn't exist in the world and I think I
need to be the person to make that to do
that and so that's when the personal MBA
be went from just this crazy side
project that I that I did post undergrad
into essentially a second full-time time
job reading and research and and trying
to to decide for myself what are the
critical parts of business how do
businesses work how do they function and
then I decided to put that in a form
that other people people could read and
benefit from as well what is an MBA
master of Business Administration it's
big big degree um actually one of the
most
economically uh successful academic
degrees that exist um over the past
several decades uh growth in uh business
masters programs worldwide has has just
exploded and so for better or worse when
adults decide that their interest
in business the first thing they do is
go to Google or Amazon and they type in
the letters MBA and they start looking
for graduate business school school
programs and I think that's a mistake I
think there's there's a reason that
people want to learn business there's a
reason that people um find this area of
of knowledge useful and I don't
necessarily think Academia is the the
place to start I think there's an
enormous amount of business knowledge
and skill that you can develop on your
own um by understanding the most
important Concepts around what
businesses are and how they work and
using them in your day-to-day life using
it in the career that you already have
using it to start something new on your
own and just a a few very simple
straightforward ideas go a very long way
and so my goal in writing the Pumba was
to
explain business to someone who has no
knowledge no experience no idea what's
going on start from absolute Square zero
and explain all of the different parts
of a business how they work how they
interrelate to each other and so you can
take that knowledge and do good work
whatever it is that that you do in your
life or in your career when you say do
good work we're talking about an outcome
there what kind of outcomes do you think
if someone's just clicked on this
conversation now and we you know with
the knowledge that we're going to talk
about this as many as well as other
things what do you think the outcome for
them could be if they got access to the
information that you put in this book
the personal MBA but also from listening
to this conversation sure uh so many of
of the readers of the personal MBA over
the years um our early career
professionals are just getting started
in their career in some way shape or
form and I can't tell you the number of
times that that I've heard from someone
who's like I'm interviewing for my first
job or I am interviewing for my first
big promotion um I actually have a
friend who is who was in this position
uh a couple months ago she's like I'm a
skilled professional I've been working
for a while there's an opportunity to
move into management here and part of
that interview is going to be they're
going to ask me like how how do we
improve the business that we're in she's
like I'm trained as an engineer I don't
know about any of the this business
stuff and so there's a very simple way
of understanding what a business is what
a business does the primary parts that
every single business has and and how
those processes
interrelate and what that knowledge gets
you is the ability to take a look at any
existing business and understand it in a
very deep and fundamental way so you can
take a complex organization you can
break it down into parts that are very
simple straightforward easy to
understand and then you can take that
knowledge to ask a series of very useful
questions how is this business creating
value how do they attract the attention
of people who might want or need what
this business provides how do they
convince people to pull out their wallet
or checkbook or credit card um and and
give the business money how does the
business deliver the value that it it
promising to its paying customers and
then is the business bringing in money
how's the business spending money and a
is it bringing in more than it spending
if not there's a problem um and more
importantly is it enough is it enough to
make all of the time and energy and
effort that's being put into the
business by the owner and the employees
worthwhile and that's the essence of
finance and so understanding business in
this very systematic way is a superpower
it it allows you to take a look at
anything like the businesses that are
happening in the world all around us it
helps you understand them if you want to
create a business this is the foundation
of every business plan that has or ever
will exist because each of these parts
is universal essential and fundamental
you have to answer these questions and
so by having this framework in your head
um going back to my friend earlier her
prep for the interview was very simple
we had a 15minute conversation about
what those things might look like she
went away and did her prep and she went
into the interview the next day and she
was offered the job and one of the
things that comes out of having this
deep understanding of business even for
potentially very young or very Junior
people who are just getting
started understanding these things being
able to ask these questions being able
to know what's important and what's not
and think like an owner or an operator
of the
business is what the owners and
operators and Executives and managers
are looking for in terms of people to
hire people to recruit or people to
start companies and so the more you
understand how all of this works at a
deeply fundamental level the more
opportunities you're going to have I
think it's I think it's a skill That's
essential for every person to to know
and and be conversent
I think from the stats you said about
how the desire to sign up to a academic
MBA have increased most people would
agree true because you know that's a
reflection of demand in the market
you're saying more and more people are
going to University and trying to do a
business
course are they being scammed because if
you think about the promise they're
signing up to even through the lens that
you've just described they're being
marketed something sure is that
institution delivering the value that
they're being marketed I.E I guess the
the promise is that you'll have a better
career you'll earn more money if I go to
university and do a business degree is
that being
delivered the answer to that is it
depends and the it depends is it depends
on what you want for yourself and your
life and so um approximately 2third of
business school graduates um go into
either management consulting or
Investment
Banking um the remainder of them the
vast majority go into working for
extremely large companies and so if you
want your life to look like that then
the promise that is is very often
delivered but with business business
school programs is you're essentially
buying yourself a very expensive
interview to have an opportunity at a
company or a firm or an industry where
that is the primary mode of of um um of
getting into it
now the price of that interview can be
very very Steep and so um the the top 10
Business Schools um as we're talking
right now charge anywhere between $240
and
$250,000 for a two-year
program that's an enormous amount of
money and that's usually financed with
debt and so if you don't have a a for
example if you're not working for a
company that is willing to sponsor your
way through and pay the tuition costs
most of these degrees are are financed
with debt and that debt is going to be
with you regardless of whether or not
you like your career
regardless of the the economic situation
that you you graduate into regardless
whether or not you get a job at at the
end of it
so you're taking on an enormous OB an
enormous obligation spending a lot of
money borrowing a lot of money with a
very unsure outcome at the end is there
any correlation between getting an MBA
and long-term Career Success uh it it's
funny uh this has been asked by very
many people and the answer is always no
um so my my two favorite studies here um
Jeffrey feffer and Christina Fong at
Stanford University at the time this was
the early 2000s business school
professors did a study of do business
school programs work because if they did
you would expect to see more successful
Executives
professionals having business school
degrees and what they found is no it
makes absolutely no difference and my my
favorite quote um was was by the lead
offer um Jeffrey feffer was like if you
are good enough to get in you are good
enough to do well
regardless it's a credentialing system
it's it's a pre selection um but really
like the people who make things happen
in business are people individuals with
skills and abilities and the abil the
the the Curiosity and the drive to to
make things happen you don't necessarily
get that from having three letters after
the end of your name there's going to be
so many people that are listening that
want to start their own businesses
they're probably currently in a
corporate job right now and they're
thinking gosh I have this idea I'd love
to give it a go but something is holding
them in place and from reading your book
it's it's the first thing that tends to
hold people in place is just their
belief that business is complicated yeah
um from everything you've come to learn
and all the testimonials you've had do
you agree with that belief that business
is complicated and or how difficult do
you think it is for the average person
with an idea to go from working in a job
to earning I don't know $10,000 a month
running their own business do you think
that's achievable for most people I
think it is achievable for most people
yeah and I I think uh um I think
business is complex in the sense of
there are many moving Parts it's not
just one thing they're interr
relatednesses that you need to
understand it's not complicated in the
sense of the most important ideas
principles things to do things to
understand are not all that difficult
when it get gets down to it um I think
in business in general um somewhat for
status related reasons but business
people like to feel fancy and
complicated and and sometimes you signal
status or sophistication by making
things sound really big or difficult or
or complex I think that's fundamentally
not the case for business most of the
ideas that we deal with are common sense
and simple
arithmetic and
so we do need to Grapple with the
complexities of the world because as we
were talking earlier the every business
has these five major interrelated parts
we need to understand how those work um
businesses are created by people for the
benefit of other people and so we need
to understand human psychology both our
psychology and the psychology of the
people we inter interact with relate to
whether that's customers or employees
contractors the other people in our
world and then there are certain parts
about how the world Works system and
process how things tend to interact with
each other that's very valuable and
important to know um but
again complex not complicated and I
think there's there's a lot of for for
the person who wants to
start a new business a lot of it comes
down to answering those fundamental
questions how are you going to create
value that someone else in the world
wants or needs okay so let's start so
typically when I do these podcasts I I
try and navigate The Journey right I try
and figure out where to start but this
is going to be the first time I actually
ask you if I am that person who has an
idea in my head um or maybe I've got you
know I'm off to the races with an idea
I've got a I don't know I'm going to
launch a business that sells
candles okay sure I think I can make
candles that smell amazing so what's the
first of those sort of levers or
principles I need to think about when
I'm when I'm designing my business
thinking about my business you know
thinking about making a business plan
what is step one in that Journey yeah
Step One is is the value creation
component which is it it sounds like in
in this particular example the candles
are the the type of value that that
would be created and then the the
relevant question there
is why do people buy candles what are
they looking for when when somebody goes
goes out and they say you know what I
would really like to have a candle right
now
what do they want what do they need what
are they looking for they want them to
smell nice exactly okay so perfect they
want them to look nice yeah um they want
them to not be a ripoff so they want
them to be cheap guessing they want them
to last a long time I guess sure y last
a long time okay and so this is a a
really interesting thing a lot of the
things around value creation comes come
down to making trade-offs between
competing priorities and
so the perfect product or the perfect
offering would deliver every single
thing that the the customer would like
and it would be free yeah and so a lot
of the the early stage value creation
process is like okay we've identified
some some areas like things that people
are looking for things that people
want can you understand each of those
things in detail around for example what
makes a really good candle set what
makes a candle last longer what allow
Kingdom manufacturing at at a relatively
inexpensive rate all of those things and
then most successful businesses pick one
or two of those things to focus on and
then turn that dial all the way up to 9
10 11 and so for example you might be
able to make the best smelling longest
lasting candle using some complex
chemistry manufacturing process whatever
mhm that might be very expensive to do
so the price of the candle might be
higher than you than you otherwise uh
would like it to be um or you could go
the other direction let's make the
cheapest most ubiquitous candles ever
but then let's focus on the distribution
end of things to have candles in more
places and so you start um this was
something that that I learned how to do
very early in in my career I worked for
a consumer goods manufacturer big
company called Proctor and Gamble who
make everything by the way if people
don't know what Pro everything they
literally they're probably 10 things in
this room that Proctor and Gamble made
yeah toothpaste laundry detergent you
know all of that I I worked on the home
side and one of the things that I took
away was uh every once in a while you'll
you'll read in like the The Wall Street
Journal New York Times whatever about
the the crazy lengths that consumer
goods researchers will will go to to
figure out how people use like paper
towels or something like that I got to
be one of those people for a couple
years and it was
fascinating I've watched so many people
clean their
kitchens and there's there's a certain
amount of like the value creation
process that that is psychology and
anthropology of just going out into the
world with your eyes wide open noticing
what people do asking questions noticing
subtle things that they might not even
pick pick up
on and then if you do more formal
research you can start asking people to
to make explicit trade-offs between
options and so if you could have a
candle that lasted the long time versus
had the most amazing scent throw ever
which one would you pick and you can
start to to kind of navigate the space
of possible solutions in that particular
category by talking to people who buy
candles because you don't want to ask a
random person on the street you want to
talk to people who will actually
purchase the things that that uh that
you're creating
but by paying attention and by asking
questions and starting to to get a feel
for
how the people who are making these
buying decisions actually navigate the
process of narrowing down options to
make a decision that's where you find
some sometimes the very tiny things that
make an enormous difference that's where
you find the places to innovate right
yeah but people don't know what they
want right so you got to be careful
because if you give people a survey on
candles exactly
they might tell you something but they
might buy you know there's this sort of
Detachment between what we think we want
and how we spend our money totally which
can cause people you know because I'm on
Dragon's St so people I'm halfway
through filming at the moment so I've
had 50 pictures so far and one of the
most popular phrases I hear as a dragon
on Dragon s which is the like shark tank
in the US and around the world is I have
this idea my friends and my M my mom
have told me it's great and they they'
definitely buy one and here it is and
and I go that means [__] nothing
means absolutely nothing yeah and a lot
of people pursue ideas they quit their
career they spend years pursuing this
thing that their seven best friends and
their mom said they would buy and they
you know they gave it to their their
friend and their mom and their friend
and mom used it and said they liked it
yeah the best way to get around that ask
for early pre-orders ask people to lay
down money on the idea so um this I mean
this is part of how Kickstarter started
right here's an idea here's a concept
here's exactly what you're going to get
please enter your credit card details
because it's that act it's the raising
your hand wallet checkbook credit card
and saying yes I'll take one that's the
signal that you're looking forward for
and that can be everything from you know
Kickstarter on the consumer side to
letters of intent on on the the mid to
large size company side yes if you build
this Software System we will sign up for
an engagement at X price for X term um
so finding that buy buying signal is
really important and then going back to
to your comment earlier about um
noticing the the subtle
things people's behavior says a lot more
than people's words and so if you if
there's a conflict between what people
are saying and what people are doing
focus on what they're doing all the time
um one of my favorite uh stories coming
out of the the um consumer research
department at Proctor and Gamble was
there was a researcher in in a a lady's
home one afternoon and they were just
watching her do her laundry this was
this was back in the days of powdered
laundry detergent so you know you have
the box of powder you have the scoop put
it in and so the uh the lady turned on
her her
washer and just stood there for like 15
20 seconds doing nothing just like
waiting and the research just watching
and then at a certain point she's
like what what are you doing she's like
oh I'm I'm waiting for the tub to fill
up why are you doing that it's like well
if there's not water in the bottom when
I put the powdered laundry detergent in
it's not it's not going to dissolve
properly so you've got to wait for the
tub to fill up a little bit and then
then you put the powder in and you swish
it around the the bottom of the Basin
with your hand so it dissolves all the
way and then you put the clothes
in and so the researcher took this back
to the um to the research department and
all the chemists are just like this is
dumb we have science we have data that
says no our our detergent dissolves
completely this is not this is a
nonissue and the consumer researchers
are like no this is a psychological need
there's a bit of reassurance here that
people don't have how can we give that
to them and the answer to that was the
invention of liquid laundry detergent
which is now a multi-billion dollar a
year product category and it didn't come
from a physical need it came from an
unmet psychological
need and I just love that because I
remember remember growing up um watching
my grandmother do laundry and she did
the exact same thing for the exact same
reasons and it's sometimes those subtle
things so for example going back to our
candles um one of the things that uh
just by pure coincidence I was involved
in uh when I when I worked at PNG uh was
scent research so the scent of the
cleaning product like there's there's a
lot of psychology there's a lot of
science um that that goes into
that
and there's a difference in how
something smells for example when you
take a cap off of a bottle of something
and sniff it smells different than if
you for example a cleaning product you
pour it into a bucket and dilute it with
water and you mop your
floor and
so those things make an enormous
difference like how is the product going
to be used and in the case of candles
one of the things that people pay very
close attention to is the smell of a
candle while it's
burning and the smell of a candle when
it's not
burning and there's a whole category of
candle purchasers who will buy a candle
based on what's called cold throw how
much does it smell when it's just
sitting on the middle of your table not
burning not doing anything and so those
are the the little bits like if you pay
close enough attention if you focus on
the right things the the the subtle
things that people are either saying or
not saying you can find those very
important unmet needs and then focus on
on meeting those and that's that's the
making of of a a product or an offer
that that has likes to it so interesting
because um we all walk around that thing
you were saying about the powed laudry
deterant that was 100% me I was too
young to be messing around with the
washing machine but whenever I had like
my shot my parents were out I'd pour all
the powder in into the little tray and
then I would like swish it around with
my finger I'd get water from the sink
above and pour it in there to try and
dissolve the powder with my finger so I
was doing that as well and I was
thinking as you you you were saying that
you know we all walk around with the
same kind of set of psychological biases
so if we assume that we can truly
understand how other people are behaving
when we are other people when we are
them as well when we have the same sort
of
psychology assuming that we can guess
that is quite dumb because none of us
would have ever guessed what you just
said about the laundry detergent thing
none of us would have ever sat in a
boardroom and figured that out we had to
go out into the world and almost become
like a fly on the wall or take a bird's
eye view on how we as humans are
behaving to spot that opportunity right
and and I was thinking you know there's
so many people that are maybe have
business ideas now
um or thinking of a business idea but
but there's just just gaping opportunity
in observing the world objectively and
seeing how people are doing what they're
doing and why they're doing what they're
doing um I always wonder that I think
you know if you're trying to think of a
new business idea should you sit down
with a piece of paper and sketch out the
problems that you've had in your life
should you just start to become more
aware of your day-to-day life and then
make notes in your journal or is there
another way to find that idea yes start
there for sure
yeah and then go out into the world with
your eyes open just looking for problems
annoyances frictions um things that are
just a little bit annoying or suboptimal
in some way I mean I I think kind of a
general a general question like we're
not humanity is not running out of
problems to solve the there are millions
of opportunities to make someone's life
a little bit more pleasant a little bit
more secure a little bit bit more
interesting a little bit more fun and so
I think there's there's a lot of magic
to be had in just going out into the
world and having experiences in the
world with other people and just
noticing in a way that you've never
noticed before of oh there's something
there that's that's a little bit higher
friction than it otherwise could be I
mean this this was kind of the the
Genesis of um like Amazon Amazon Prime
how can we make it as easy as possible
for someone to click a button and
something magically arrives on your
doorstep within 24 to 48 hours how can
we make just just this opportunity a
little bit more fun or different or
interesting um this is this is where
like um over the past 20 years and
consumer goods packaging design has come
come a long way because if you can grab
someone's attention and give them a
little bit of a pleasant experience
while they're they're walking around
shopping that's a good thing it it moves
an enormous amount of product and it's
something that you have to plan for from
the very beginning stages but it makes a
huge difference it's so interesting cuz
I was just thinking as you're saying
that I was thinking what is an annoyance
or a frustration that I've just I just
live with that I've kind of just assumed
is the way of the world and it's just
the way it is and one sprung to mind
that's very close to home in every sense
of the word we've been doing this
podcast a long time a couple of years
now three four years now and every
single time before we start the podcast
Jack will walk in and Jack will say to
the guest please don't bang on the table
because if you bang on the table it
comes through the
mic we've been saying it for years we
haven't figured out how to solve the
problem yet so if there's anybody out
there but I was thinking do you know
what what an entrepreneur would do um if
there was any in this [__] room um we
would we would make our own mic we would
solve the problem we could we could
probably solve but we kind of just
assume that someone else will solve it
or it's just the way of the world and I
say this because we could have probably
fixed this we've been very busy but we
could have probably
made a new mic with a new Bas that
suspends the mic so the vibrations don't
go through but I say this because
everybody in their lives has those
frustrations absolutely things they're
just living with and they they're kind
of assuming that someone else is going
to solve it or it's just the way the
world is
yeah what's sorry Jack we can't hear you
Jack Jack's defending himself from the
corner
sure
yeah yeah it's difficult with sm7 BS but
uh no there's a company called reot that
makes some really amazing universal
shock mount adapters for microphone I
think we should I think we should do it
and we should sell
it we'll have a meeting about that later
are you gon to go get it yeah totally
are you gon to go get it oh it's in
there
okay no I was thinking God why didn't we
just make one okay so Jack tried to make
this contraption here oh cool which
would I guess suspend the microphone and
limit the vibrations going through it
yeah okay but we tried it and it didn't
work now now we're very busy with lots
of solving other issues so this was kind
of low on the list of priorities but
that as an example and everybody
listening to this now has daytoday
frustrations things they observe and go
that could be better sure and they go I
hope someone else figures that out yes
and that's the entrepreneur that's going
to make the millions yeah and and the
the difference between um entrepreneurs
and non entrepreneurs is the
entrepreneur says and I'm going to be
the one that solves that problem and
then what happens it depends on the idea
so for example like manufacturing idea
like this is this is where we start
getting into the different types of
businesses whether you're you're
building a product or building a service
um some sort of shared resource
membership um I I talk about 12
different forms of value in the personal
MBA so the instantiation of the idea
really depends on the form of which the
you're you're going to deliver it to to
the end result but like a lot of times
the early stages are prototyping finding
people who might benefit from this thing
getting their input advice perspective
and that gives you the information that
you need to either continue going down
that path or sometimes the information
is yeah this is a this is something that
could potentially be a really good idea
um but is is not going to be a viable
business for for whatever reason and so
some of those early stages of
Entrepreneurship are very focused on
what is this how might it work can we
sketch it out in enough detail to know
what questions we need to answer next in
order to figure out like what are the
critical assumptions can we meet those
critical assumptions to make a viable
business if so yes let's move on to the
next up if not let's discard it and go
on to the next so when we think about
this microphone challenge we've had one
of the critical assumptions we're making
is that it can be solved sure is that
there's some way to kind of insulate the
microphone from the vibrations of the
table at some point as those vibrations
travel up and I can see in this quite
cool Contraption actually we've used
rubber here yeah assuming that if we
suspend it with rubber there I'm
guessing this is Jack's invention I
guess it's your or someone else's is it
your invention
yeah it's a cool idea it now um that's
an assumption we've
made I'm guessing it failed it failed
yeah I think
the
okay yes okay so these are the
assumptions you're talking about yes and
and there's also um in this specific
example it's something that will serve
the need with this particular microphone
and so for example you might be able to
solve the problem in a very
straightforward Way by changing to a
different microphone that has different
options available so a lot of it just
depends on the constraints that you're
dealing with and this is the early
stages of figuring out how to give value
to the end consumer this is the sort of
iterative experimental failure ridden
process yes which everyone has to go
through and I think this is important to
highlight because what often will happen
is people will take the first pop at it
I know we've been doing we've been
taking many pops but just for the sake
of this conversation they'll take the
first pop at it it won't work then
they'll concede uhhuh yep when it's and
a lot of it comes down
to how big is this problem how urgent is
it how many people need something like
this um so this is where you get into
like the you know St this The Standard
supply and demand sort of economic
consideration is this a need that only
you have or is this a need that many
many people have and how how big of a
need is this is this something that for
example um high-profile podcasters will
pay thousands of dollars to solve or is
this something that affects only a Subs
segment of people and is not valuable
enough to to bother with or to invest a
lot of time and energy researching
finding a a solution for how do we how
do you find out if there's a big enough
market for your idea that's where you
that's where you talk to people and
that's that's the this is where value
creation and marketing tend to intersect
and so it's can you identify people out
in the world who have a very
similar problem set of things that
they're think thinking about set of
questions that they're trying to answer
and the more of those people you can
identify and the more urgent and
pressing the need is
um that's the first thing that you need
to to look for in terms of of
identifying viable markets so they tell
me that they want it I go out there I
speak to people they all tell me that
they want it but that's not enough right
ask them to place a pre-order that
that's that's the step two H okay so
it's it's not the question
isn't do you want it is it's is this
enough of a problem for you to pay money
to solve it um um there's a a guy desk
trainer who who founded
intercom um has a saying I just love
he's like show me a credit card that has
been swiped to solve this problem and I
will concede that the problem is
real and so you're really looking for
like are people is this big enough
important enough are people spending
money to solve this particular need if
so that's a really great sign you're on
the right track okay so what I'm gonna
do then is we're going to before we
spend a lot of money in building out
this new microphone system we're going
to put up a waiting list for the
podcasters we're going to see how many
of them swipe to pre-order it yep and
then if we get I don't know a couple of
hundred a couple of thousand probably a
couple of hundred couple of hundred
swipes with their credit cards to
pre-order this thing even though we
haven't built it yet then we're going to
invest in building it yep does that make
sense it does and then you do a short
run to mitigate your risk first okay you
get your your uh initial Fe feedback
from your first run of customers they
will have opinions about what works and
what doesn't mhm and then um if that is
enough that's when you start like start
small and then you work up to to larger
and larger batches of production because
what's happening a lot out there with
aspiring entrepreneurs is they're
spending two to three years building
their company and it's all leading up to
this launch day where everything's
riding on this big launch day they've
raised I don't know $70,000 for their
whatever sure why is that the wrong
approach to take I think there's a
difference
between doing business and playing
business it's like people who get really
really excited of I'm going to start a
company and so the first thing I need to
do is pick a logo and buy my business
cards like that's the signaling parts of
business it's playing a role where the
actual doing of the business is the
value creation Marketing sales value
delivery finance and so the more you can
skip all the early stuff
get to the core of what is going to make
the business succeed or fail figure that
out as quickly as possible and then get
on with it then you're going to have
more than enough time and money to have
fancy business cards and like do do do
that bit but yeah it really is like at
the idea validation stage it's how can
you ask enough people who might be in
the market to spend money to solve this
particular problem how can you get
something valuable in front of them as
quickly as possible what would that look
like and how can you do that
particularly early on if you don't have
a lot of funding in a way that minimizes
time and finance because the worst
possible uh way to go about things is
raise millions of dollars of venture
capital and build up out this whole
thing only to have no one buy it at the
end you started with this point of value
giving value to other people why why is
that the the frame to think through when
you're thinking about the idea yeah I
think if you are not providing value to
other people in a fundamental way you
have no
business
um a venture that markets and sells
something that does not deliver value to
other people is a scam and so really
like I think there's there's a way of
thinking about business this is one of
the things I find fascinating about it
business to me is is a generative act
you are going out into the world you're
finding a problem you're finding a
solution to that problem you're creating
something that makes the world better in
some fundamental
way and then you're bringing it to the
attention of people who care and you're
convincing them that they need to try
this to actually solve their problem and
then it works and then they give you
money for it it's great so you can just
keep that process going going for for as
long as as it makes sense to everyone
involved like I I think to me a well
running working business system is a
thing of beauty you're solving people's
problems you're being rewarded for it
you're doing it in a way that allows you
to keep solving people's problems and it
makes your life better in the process I
think that's a wonderful way to live
your life and if you don't start
by asking the question what is the
valuable thing that I am going to
deliver to people who care the whole
thing pulls apart what step two then
yeah marketing marketing okay marketing
is fun yeah marketing is is just who
might be interested in this
thing um
and a lot of it is the the the
fundamental thing is if no one knows you
exist no one's going to be able to buy
your thing and and so marketing is is
the process of attracting the attention
of people who might be interested in the
value that that you're creating and in
an Ideal World making them curious
wanting to learn more um asking for
additional information engaging with
what what it is that you have a lot of
people conf conflate Marketing in sales
to me they're distinct processes so so
marketing is the attracting attention
and generating interest and then sales
is the process of convincing someone to
buy and then getting them set up as as
as a
customer and a lot of marketing comes
down
to what is it exactly that you're trying
to gather attention for and where do
those people generally hang out what are
they curious about what are they already
paying attention to what can you um what
can you take advantage of or dovetail
into in order to attract someone's
attention at the right moment at the
right time
and make them aware that you have
something that could benefit their life
here's what it is here's how you can
benefit from it to be great at marketing
do you think we need to understand the
underlying psychological sort of core
motivations of humans oh absolutely yeah
and you know what those are yeah um
there was a really great book about this
um published years ago called um drive
by Paul Lawrence and and noria um who I
think at the time was the um the dean of
Harvard Business
school and they argued that um humans
have four fundamental drives um and if I
can remember them off the top of my head
the drive to
acquire the drive to bond the drive to
learn and the drive to
defend is there a fifth the drive to
feel the drive to feel is is my addition
to to this okay so yeah and to me like
so the drive to acquire you know let's
go out and buy products in enhance my
career things like that the drive to
learn gather knowledge understand the
world um the drive to bond relationships
uh
experiences uh the drive to defend uh
let's protect myself home security
systems you know all all that thing and
for me like entertainment is very much a
a drive to
feel um we don't go to the movies to do
any of those previous four things we go
to the movies to have an experience to
feel motions and so I to me the vast
majority of offers in the
market are designed to to to hook into
or to take advantage of one of those
five core human drives and the more
drives that you you hook into generally
the more attractive the the business
offer is is going to be and so you could
make a a a pretty straightforward
argument that um one of the reasons that
soci media has become so popular over
the last decade is because it hooks into
at least four out of five of these
drives potentially all
five so give me an example of a business
and the drives that it's kind of playing
to in its marketing strategy so if we
think
about Nike maybe sure yeah so um the the
drive to acquire is straightforward I
need to put things on my feet like shoes
are great um also it is status so so I
would say the the there can be like the
acquiring status drive there can also be
very much like ingroup outgroup Dynamics
are a form of bonding right I'm the type
of person who identify or who will wear
this sort of thing I form relationships
with people who care about these
sneakers these special additions these
athletes these whatever
um less learning less defending
feeling can very much be a part of of a
product experience like people who
strongly identify with certain brands
certain Lifestyles certain ways of of
being in the world like when you put on
something that makes you feel good there
can be an emotional component to that
experience that's very very strong it's
interesting because I was thinking about
Apple as well through that lens Apple's
a great example obviously so if we think
about the drive to acquire very much a
status project product and it always has
been Bond again most much of their
advertising is about connecting people
in connection learn again you know much
of their marketing is about the fact
that you can learn on these devices like
the iPad for example defend they talk
about how encryption a lot and huge
focus on security and privacy right now
for that reason yeah the drive to feel I
guess most of their marketing when I
think about the Vision Pro where they
weirdly show like the dad and his kids
and he's got this massive headset on I
guess that was an attempt to arouse em
The Vision Pro now has this sort of
spatial video where you can you know one
of my team members when they first put
it on for the first time remarked that
they wish they had got spatial videos of
their grandmother that's passed away
because but that's the kind of narrative
that they show with the products as well
is that it's going to they really put at
the heart in the the marketing
initiatives they do so they really do a
really good job at hitting all of these
yeah I I would say do you remember the
early iPod advertisements with like the
white silhouette person dancing on a Col
those advertisements were
straightforward feeling
a thousand songs in your pocket it's how
the songs make you feel this is a way
that you can feel that more often or
more strongly it's pure
emotion and they specifically you know
so a more like straightforward drive to
acquire on a technology product is is
like how many gigabytes of storage does
this thing
have and they talked about they made a
deliberate decision not to talk about
that at all because it didn't matter
people didn't care it was all about
here's how you can feel through the
experience of using this product to have
an experience you wouldn't otherwise
have I mean this highlights a really
important point about marketing but
building products and deciding what to
build which is how important is it to
make something that is logically better
versus something that is emotionally
more compelling yeah in an Ideal World
you do both um you can go a long long
way with
emotion even when you don't have um
straightforward
Superior product benefits you know going
going back to uh our our discussion of
candles earlier candles have been around
for what hundreds of years like you're
probably not going to to make you know
barring Material Science advancements
you're probably not going to make a a a
technical contribution to Candle science
in the process of making something speak
for
yourself I mean it's possible it's my
next business IDE I told you yeah um but
like
things like the packaging and the
marketing and the scent and the unboxing
experience and the anticipation of
putting it out as as the centerpiece
when all your friends come and all of
that like there are so many emotional
hooks to that sort of
experience that you could argue that
candles are sold
almost all on emotion and that's great
that's the value that's being delivered
do you know a better example of that
I've came across recently liquid death
oh yeah it's just
water what yes they built a billion doll
business selling water in a fancy can
totally and affiliation like there's a
little bit of a bonding or I'm the type
of person who wants to present to the
world in this particular way so I don't
buy Fiji I buy liquid
death sure it's just water it's just
water sometimes it's carbonated or
flavored yeah come on it's water I I saw
some I thought these stats might be out
of date but it was maybe last year the
the year before I saw that they were
selling half a billion dollars of water
and they're like a fairly new market
entrance in the grand scheme of things
and and from what I can observe it's
just a different can yeah and the
packaging matters the affiliation
matters the story matters why do you
think they won I think they were first
so that's also
um you talk about in your book the value
of doing something big and crazy for the
value of doing something big and crazy I
mean they were the first to do something
crazy on the marketing side for water it
was a really boring product category
very straightforward very functional um
and what their big Insight was the way
that we talk about it the way we package
it the way we present it matters and
there's a certain Subs segment of
customers that would not buy a
straightforward bottle of water because
they don't care but if they can signal
something about themselves or a group
affiliation in in some way shape or form
through the packaging of the product
then then to a certain subse of
customers that's valuable I've been
thinking about this theory for a while
last couple of months maybe six months
now that Brands need to especially New
Market entrance in saturated busy
markets like if you're coming out with
an energy drink right now or you're
coming out with a can of water you the
easiest way to market in terms of
marketing is if you you do a really good
job of making it clear that you are the
antithesis of the incumbents yes so you
are a or not an and in your customers's
decision framework for and what I mean
by that is to be very specific um I've
invested in a company called perfect Ted
it's actually the drink in my cup right
now and when in one of my first meetings
with them um when we sat down I said you
know this brand I think will win if the
consumer walks down that Supermarket
aisle and thinks to themselves
I can be a insert incumbent energy drink
brand mhm or a perfect Ted person I
can't possibly be both right and we all
know that well I think a liquid death
customer doesn't believe they can be a
EV and Water customer sure because that
it's so clearly they've stood for
something so much so that in doing so
they stand against
something and and this is what breakout
brands have done Brew dog is a good
example in the UK brw dog came into the
market Indie Punk beer they literally
took Carling beers and stuff like that
to Fields as part of their marketing and
blew it up with dynamite to say we are
not commoditized beer we are the
antithesis we are an awe you're either
with them or you're with us yep but that
takes guts it does it takes Bulls like
liquid death Bulls yeah yeah and there's
there's a whole like on the
psychological side of things the the
studies about signaling and counter
signaling like this is this is how
fashion in in the the broad scale works
so all the cool people high status
fashionable people start wearing a thing
to Signal group affiliation of like we
are the type of people who wear this
yeah and then very quickly you have
follow on folks who like oh the cool
people are wearing this I should start
wearing this too and that happens a
couple Generations until that thing is
at marks and Spencer Target uh choose
your retailer and then
the people who want to distinguish
themselves for from all of the things
that are being sold the mass retailers
will change Fashions specifically to
signal that we are not that and so the
cycle begins
again and so that that's just like
social signaling is a rabbit hole that
you could spend decades going down and
not get to the end of it but it's all
about who am I presenting myself to be
in the world who do I affiliate with who
do I not affiliate with and counter
signaling is noticing a signal that's
happening out there there in the world
and making a deliberate decision to be
the opposite of that or the the the
antithesis of that in some ways
and that is such a fascinating part of
human
psychology that
um generally speaking if you can so you
could say like um Apple did a lot of
counter signaling because Microsoft you
know some of the incumbent manufacturers
was their uh their famous uh 1984
advertisement was almost pure counter
signaling it was almost pure
emotion and it set them up as the polar
opposite to faceless beig computer box
Corporation and so yeah like if if
there's something that is is the
prevailing Trend in a certain industry
it can often pay to you know in in the
anthropological sense take a step back
notice what's going on here's the signal
that's being sent and then make a
deliberate decision to be the polar
opposite of that it takes guts though
because there's no blueprint for the
opposite yeah and you stand out yeah
which is great you get attacked yeah I
mean that's the the benefit of
controversy too so controversy can be a
wonderful marketing tactic if you use it
responsibly responsibly and so you know
you don't necessarily want to turn your
business into a soap opera but by um by
deliberately courting a certain amount
of controversy focused on the benefits
or the features you can attract a lot of
attention that way and that's what I
mean by the brewog example where they
took beer to their competitiv beer to a
field and blew it up with dynamite sure
and said we are not commoditized beer
they got they got destroyed they got
attacked so so much but the the
controversy is energy and it's making
people make a decision exactly and that
results in what is what became a
multi-billion dollar Indie beer brand
with a fraction of the marketing budget
but also that had been around a fraction
of the time versus the incumbents really
interesting Jane warring was on the
podcast she's the founder of dermologica
and she said the same thing to me she
said you know she's Built This Global
Beauty brand she goes we need to piss
off the 80% to get to the the 20% she go
we don't need everybody to like us
that's not a brand exactly a brand makes
you feel something y um but most people
that are struggling right now with
marketing I think much of the reason
they are struggling is because they are
vanilla wallpaper yeah I mean this going
back to our new product development
conversation that's what a lot of people
struggle with too because they have
their first conversation with somebody
who's like oh I hate that it's GNA work
for me it's like oh no yeah what am I
doing wrong how can I fix this it's like
no no no no you don't need all the
people you need the tiny fraction who
care more than everyone else M and a
certain like a certain amount of
polarization is a very very good thing
because it means that the thing that
you're doing is distinctive enough like
the people who care really care they
really love it they're going to buy it
consistently buy it often the people who
don't care might be completely apathetic
to the category you might not ever spend
a million dollars in 10 years you might
not ever be able to get them to care and
so your job is at a market marketer is
to attract the attention of all of the
hyper responders the people who care a
lot care often and like are really into
it and then all of the people who don't
care and are never going to Care they
can go away and that's fine if I wanted
to be an exceptional
marketeer if I wanted to you know I've
got a product and idea and I want to
make sure that it penetrates a very
noisy online Market but even an IRL
Market what would you um what kind of
skills and principles or first
principles should I really be thinking
about to become a great marketeer
because you know we can get carried away
with the fish and what I mean by the
fish is tactics and strategies but what
is the fishing rod what is the the
mindset the principles that are going to
make me a great marketeer for the next
30 40 years regardless of change yes
fundamentals of human attention that
comes down to psychology so so the vast
majority of people moving through their
lives are busy stressed overwhelmed
already have too too much information
bombarding them from all uh all points
at all times and so figuring
out I think this is a story you tell in
your book actually so so Jenny on the
side of the road who who's who's broken
down having the worst day of her entire
life um it's a little bit hyperbole but
it's it's true like most of us are just
wildly oversubscribed in in terms of
attention and time and energy and so
figuring out the little bits
of being able to to highlight the thing
that's most important most interesting
most valuable upfront quickly in a way
that cuts through that is the primary
skill of
marketing
and a lot of the the other particulars
the tactics the strategies are very
dependent on what Market are you
operating in what scale are you
operating at like all of that stuff but
fundamentally understanding that people
are busy and starved for time and
attention how can you grab it and what
can you do to keep it um that's the
primary skill of marketing by far so if
I'm if I'm running that if I'm thinking
about starting my candle business what
is step three in your sort of I think
you said five-step framework of what
really matters sure yeah this is sales
okay sales and so for a candle business
this might look like direct sales online
it could also look like intermediate
intermediatory sales like through a
distributor and
so it's funny like value creation
marketing value delivery and finance all
of those are the processes where uh
where money is Flowing out of the
business you're spending money to do all
of this analysis uh sales is the part
where money comes in which makes it
makes it particularly important and so
some of the early decisions around sales
are um how are you going to ask for the
sale what does the sales process look
like and are you dealing directly with
the customer that who is purchasing from
you or are you dealing with some sort
sort of independent third party or
sometimes multiple third parties in the
process like a retail or distributor
exactly okay and in order to be
exceptional at selling my
candles is there anything that I should
bear in mind maybe when I'm making the
candles how I'm packaging the candles
the way that I'm you know going to those
retailers or yeah so I think
um there's a part
of because sales is kind of in the
middle the process there's a part of
sales that intersects with marketing in
the sense of you're trying to make this
maximally appealing to get someone to
give you money for it and so the
customer understanding how how can how
can we be persuasive in getting someone
to say yes this is for me here's my
money I would like one please there's
also a part of sales which is somewhat
neglected which intersects with the
value delivery part of the process which
is the point a sale is not just to get a
customer in an ideal way it's to get a
happy satisfied customer someone who not
only purchased the thing that you bought
but is happy with the thing that they
bought and is thrilled that they did
business with you and is planning on
doing business with you again why is
that so important well it's relatively
straightforward to make a sale once um
usually the first sale is the most
expensive and so generally a repeat C
repeat customers are the best customers
you will ever have they are already know
you exist they already know your stuff
is great um you don't have to attract
their attention again necessarily um and
depending on what you're selling like
those repeat customers can the lifetime
value of a repeat customer can be
extraordinary and so if you've already
done the work to get a customer once
then you should want to keep them happy
and keep them around for as long as
humanly possible what's lifetime value
oh lifetime value this is this is a fun
one um so lifetime value is the sum
total of all sales of a customer with a
business and so imagine um Jack I sell
jack a candle
yes
now Jack how many candles do you uh do
you burn a
year seven seven okay so take the The
Profit that you make per candle so I'm
selling the candles at $10 and I make $1
profit on them yep times s
okay so the lifetime value well let's
say we're just over the course of a year
$7 profit for let's take someone like
Jill who burns the candle every week wow
and not just this year she Burns a
candle every week years and years and
years running so for Jill 52 time 7 is
$364 and so she's a much more valuable
customer than Jack is by a lot and so if
you had to to to make a choice between
Jack and Jill like you should choose
Jill every single time customer service
matters right it does yeah because
people many companies see it as like an
annoyance like I've sold you the [__]
thing why you email me stop bothering me
and they treat you like you're a
nuisance yeah yeah and that's a shame um
because really like those happy repeat
customers
are not just like your high lifetime
value customers the customers that will
stick with you keep spending money with
you they're also a primary source of
marketing like Word of Mouth marketing
is all happy customers telling other
people who might benefit from your
product that hey here's this wonderful
thing you should probably check it out
and so yeah like things like post Sal
support um sometimes customer
reactivation so like to your point
earlier it's a very straightforward
marketing technique called
reactivation if you can contact Jack and
say Hey you bought candles from us last
year would you like to buy candles from
us this year and get him to to pick up
just a couple more more candles like the
cost of that promotion is potentially
very small you already know he exists
you already know that he's purchased um
can you just get him to do that again um
those are some of the most effective
Marketing sales campaigns that you can
possibly run but it also requires that
they had a good experience with whatever
it is that you're offering in the first
place is there like a sales equation of
sorts is there like a you know when I'm
thinking about how to close a deal how
to sell that candle is there a skill set
or a framework or a model that I should
be thinking through when I'm trying to
sell it to Jack or Jill um there are
many many Frameworks I think the um the
biggest most most popular one uh which a
lot of people get stuck on as the whole
features versus benefits
conversation and so
um in the context of candles Fe a
features conversation would be is this
candle is made from 100% soy wax people
don't necessarily care it's not relevant
to the reason that people purchase
candles benefits are the things that
people that get to those core human
drives the things that that motivate the
purchase to begin with
and
so one very useful way of thinking about
this is whenever you're doing any sort
of marketing or sales you're focusing on
the benefits the things that you're
delivering to people the things that are
enticing and if you talk about features
at all you use them as reasons to
believe that you're going to be able to
deliver the benefits that are promised
and so um if for example you're you're
uh taking an an ecologically friendly
approach to your your candle business um
the fact that 100% soy is very clean
burning and environmentally friendly
might be a reason to believe that this
benefit is true but it's not the primary
reason that people are going to purchase
interesting and a lot of people I guess
are making the mistake of focusing on
the features of their product yeah this
is the the difference
between um an iPod has one gigabyte High
Drive hard drive and a thousand songs in
your pocket a thousand songs in your
pocket is a benefit the size of the hard
drive is the feature that enables that
and why why is it more powerful and
compelling to the customer to focus on
the benefit versus the feature is there
something in our neurology is that a
word neurology it is a word is that the
right context in our brain yeah well I
think this this gets into um some Bier
psychology things which is people
generally before making a purchase
decision imagine what their life is
going to look like if they go down this
particular route if I buy this thing if
I uh sign up for this service if I
become a member at this club or gym or
or or whatever um there's there's a a
mental simulation process that very
often happens of like may maybe buying a
new car is a good tangible example of
this like before you buy the car you did
the test drive and you imagine like what
my what would my life be like if I was
driving this every day if I pull this
into into my in my driveway where are
the neighbors
gonna are they gonna look at me gonna
think I'm cool you know like there's
there's this
like with a little bit of information
our brains can kind of extrapolate or
start to predict what is likely to
happen out into the future to a certain
extent and this is you know to to to
some of the things you talk about in
your book about storytelling this is why
stories work for marketing and sales it
helps people engage that part of their
brain that can that can simulate a
potential future that looks and feels
really great and start to anticipate it
get excited about it
and like when you're selling a car on
the sales side of the the
Spectrum rule number one is get the
potential customer in the driver seat of
that car as quickly as possible nothing
else matters
you want them to engage in the process
of driving and imagining as quickly as
possible because that that's when they
start to convince themselves that this
is something that they might want to
have in their life so anything that you
can do to engage those kind of
simulation prediction sort of of
processes the better if you were to try
and pin down the very core parts of what
makes a company
successful what are what is what are the
core components of that what are the
fundamental games at Play in business in
your view yeah so there I think there
are a bunch of different ways to answer
that um we've talked a lot about the
five parts of every business those are
the fundamentals of what the employees
are actually doing MH um in general you
want to hire people who
are curious
engaged excellent
communicators and are signing up for
whatever whatever it is the the the
long-term objective Mission Vision of of
the company here's what we're doing
here's why it matters here's exactly who
we're serving here's why that matters
here's how we're going to go about doing
that and from there everything that
happens within the
company each of the employees are going
to be focused on one or more of these
five essential parts of the business in
an ideal World they understand all five
and how they interrelate to each other
and
how something that is done in one like
say the marketing end of side end of
things might really make a huge
difference on the value delivery or
customer service end of
things if you have all of those pieces
in place then the question becomes how
large does this business need to be in
order to serve its customers at to the
maximum possible extent in a long
long-term sustainable
way and then what level of internal
organization makes the most sense so
people can spend most of their time
doing work related to the five parts of
of every business and as little time as
possible managing the rest and so this
is kind of the the flip side of of some
of the common failure cases of
bureaucracy paperwork busy work all of
these
things what level of management do you
need
um how can you minimize that how can you
make sure
that um to me good management is is
helping remove barriers to people who
are doing skilled work how can you
remove as many things from their plate
as possible so they can focus on the
parts of the business that are are
generating the most
value and
so there's a lot um I think this was the
founder of Southwest Airlines herp
Keller it's like hire for attitude train
for
skill I think there's a lot to be said
for that because because I'm thinking a
lot about that person who is you know
again they're starting their candle
business and they're trying to figure
out what this game of business
fundamentally comes down to in 10 years
from now is it how smart I am is it how
good I am at assembling a group of smart
people is it culture is it the vision I
set is it the product I build is it all
of these things but if we just start
with hiring then because this is in my
experience where people often succeed
and fail and often where a lot of their
biases show up that they don't even know
about sure um how important is
hiring to building a great business and
becoming a successful
entrepreneur complicated answer to that
okay so
it can be more or less important
depending on exactly what you're
offering I'm offering candles you're
offering candles yeah so so to me
like making some assumptions if you're
handling if you're selling candles
Direct on the internet with a small
distribution center and mostly online
advertising your team is probably going
to be relatively small and that can be a
really good thing if you're selling
candles in distribution and tooling up a
manufacturing line and uh and going off
and and calling on all these large
customers and potentially producing Mass
Market candles it's a very different
business operation and so there's a lot
of
like understanding the necessities of
the game that you're playing and then
matching your hiring exactly to what
those needs are but not more I think
about um when I was thinking about this
candle business that I'm hypothetically
going to launch one of the things that
might stop me from launching a candle
business as it does for many people is
that there are already lots of [__]
candles and in every industry you know
when I hear entrepreneurs or I hear sof
preneurs which is someone who's got an
idea on the sofa one of the reasons
they'll give as to why they've not
started the business is because they've
just they've done some market research
and they've discovered there is already
someone solving that problem uhhuh and
then they go no there's no there's no
money to be made there what role does
competition play in this whole pitch
is competition a bad thing a good thing
a signal that I shouldn't yeah there's
something really fun here um I talk
about it in the book I call the iron law
of the
market which is um a way of saying that
markets that don't exist don't care how
smart you are it was a mark andreon
quote from way back in his Netscape
days and it's the whole idea like it's
actually a really good thing that there
are a bunch of people selling candles in
the market because that means that
there's a large Market of people who are
willing and able to buy candles it
validates the the the need it validates
the existence of the market in the first
place the markets you need to be really
careful about are the brand new to the
nobody has ever seen anything like this
on the face of the Earth because not
only do you need to educate and convince
people you have no idea whether people
have will purchase this thing that
you've made this is a story a story that
I tell in the book um Dean Cayman like
prolific inventor this was the
development of the
segue the like oh yeah balancing scooter
thing yeah I remember I think this was a
Time magazine article something like
that was like this is the this is the
mystery invention we're not going to
talk about it yet the mystery invention
that is going to change the way that
cities are planned
the hype for it was absolutely extreme
and when it came out it turned out that
people didn't want to buy a $110,000
alternative to walking or riding a bike
and so it's like those like nobody's
ever done this before can actually be in
in a weird way a bad
sign um you want something that like the
market exists the need is there people
are excited about it people are looking
for Solutions and then like liquid death
if you can come in and do it in a
fundamentally different way that grabs a
lot of attention it's a really really
great promising
sign but if it's completely brand new
that's that's more of a a warning sign
than than many of the sofa preneurs uh
would would chalk it up to be so how
should we treat competitors then if I've
got a competitor should I should I
attack them should I block them what
should I do first learn from them
buy from them become their customer
learn as much as you can about what they
do how they do it um customers can be a
wonderful source of market research
around what's what's happening in the
category what's important what's not
what was your experience competitors
yeah totally if you if you're starting a
c Candle Company go out and buy all the
candles burn them all smell them all
burn them all line your like buy a
bookshelf and fill it with candles why
um because you can learn so much about
how people do things um look at their
labeling deconstruct their packaging
look at their price points where are
they selling how are they doing their
online advertising um and the wonderful
thing is aside from your time and maybe
a little bit of budget all that market
research is free you just get to go out
and and learn from what people are doing
and then combine that with your own
research going out and talking to
customers on your own having your own
experiences your own ideas and that's
where you get your unique take your
taste your Twist on on that particular
way of of doing things what else do I
need to be thinking about so I've done
my market research on the candle
business we've got the marketing done
I'm I understand the the sort of sales
framework that I should be thinking
through I've bought every candle in the
market now MH is there anything else
that is really important to be thinking
about as I go forward and launch this
company oh yeah we haven't talked about
dollars and cents at all yet dollars and
cents yeah Finance okay so you know as
you're doing all of so development takes
money making product uh requires money
um customer service requires money
manufactur like all of the you're
spending a bunch of money making this
product you have at this point since
this is a startup you have a price that
you think is supportable hopefully
you're collecting pre-orders you're
getting some Market information about
like how much you potentially be able to
make here financial analysis is the part
where you're taking a look at all of
these decisions and tradeoffs that that
you've been
making where am I spending how
much if I have to make a choice between
a or b which one am I am I going to make
and then the finan finance is basically
just a systematic way of making
decisions around monetary
considerations um in the case of a
manufacturing business you might have
raised some some early Capital friends
family loans investors credit cards
whatever how much do you have at your
disposal how much runway do you have if
you've hired people how many months do
you have left before you really need to
be bringing in more than than your
outflows or else you're going to be in
trouble very quickly I've got a
corporate job and I've got $2,000 of
savings yeah okay so so relatively small
so then like the financial decision
making might be how many candles if I
make a small
batch like maybe of that $2,000 how much
am I going to allocate to making the
actual physical product packaging
shipping distribution how much am I
going to set aside for marketing and
sales sorts of thing that's an
allocation decision and so your early
decision making is how much do I have at
my disposal what are the the critical
things that need to be met I have to
have product to sell I have to get
people's attention somehow I have to be
able to deliver this when people buy it
and then you start making lots of
decisions lots of trade-offs about we're
going to put this here this here this
here this here what if you're bad at
math because a lot of people I think
they're put off business because they
hear about gross margin and net profit
and revenue and they go oh God I was bad
at math in school so I'm never going to
be good at business and or I meet a lot
of Entre especially in the den but just
in life generally who basically avoid
the finances of their own business yeah
because it's just not their strong area
so I think they think they can just
maybe they're right because I did meet
Richard Branson and he told me that you
know he's not very astute with finances
and he said to me you just basically
need to know three numbers in business
um and he also said to me that he was
sort of 50 odd years old when he was in
a meeting where his directors were
talking about net profit and he had had
no idea what they were talking about so
one of them pulled him out of the room
and drew a picture of a ocean and put a
net in it and said the fish is in the
net your net profit and at the time he
was running one of the biggest groups in
Europe you just go so what how important
is this thing called finance and money
and accounting yeah I mean most of it is
common sense in simple arithmetic really
like we're talking addition subtraction
multiplication division um some of the
the definitions when you really get down
to it are relatively straightforward
um so how much you going to sell it for
minus how much does it cost to make how
much does it cost to Market how much
does it cost to deliver is your profit
um and then you know how much on the
things that you have to spend um every
month so in the case of an online
business uh your website your shopping
cart credit card processing all the way
up to if if you have a physical business
how much are you spending on salaried
employees office space electricity
utilities um there's some very
straightforward uh Concepts like
amortization like can you take something
that would be a a larger pool of money
how much does that cost you per month as
an equivalent can you build that into
your budget how do I learn this stuff if
I didn't go to school that's why I wrote
the first LBA okay so yeah can you will
you tell me about all of this stuff if I
get this book yes it so the the whole
idea aidea behind personal MBA was to
take all of these Concepts like
amortization like nonprofit all of this
and explain it in the clearest most
direct most straightforward plain
language that I possibly could and is it
easy it's very straightforward yeah is
there a a most important number or or a
most important set of numbers in
business when it comes to running my
candle business if I was to really stay
focused on a particular number or metric
is there one in particular yeah I think
so early on the things that you're going
to want to pay very close attention to
like early stage entrepreneurship is all
about is this Su are we to the point of
keeping this business sustainable can we
keep the lights on can we keep going and
is it worth it to me or not and
so your monthly fix
overhead like how much am I spending
every month just to keep the lights on
everything cleaning yep everything my my
Gmail account everything yep okay yep so
what is what are my monthly
outflows what are my monthly sales
numbers and it's monthly because usually
our modern expenses happen monthly rent
payments happen monthly all that how
much is coming in product service offer
sales how much does it cost to deliver
that in
total what is my monthly overhead
everything required to keep the lights
on
and at the end of that is net profit
which is how much do I get to
keep and is that enough so for example
if you're if you're working 80 hours a
week keeping this candle business open
and you have $5 to your name at the end
of that month you might be able to
sustain that for a little bit but at a
certain point there are going to be some
very difficult decisions
around technically we're making money
but it's just not it's not enough to
make this sustainable and so some of
that early number like as as an early
stage entrepreneur is like what is that
for you like based on your life based on
your lifestyle what you hope and dream
for
yourself what's the number that makes a
venturous long-term sustainable like I
can keep doing this it makes sense for
right now to keep
going you focus on getting to that
number first and then from there you
have a lot of different
options one of the mental models that I
think we share is around this idea of
experimentation yes absolutely and it's
one of my favorite subjects because it's
been a real Revelation for me over the
last couple of years in business um
which is really this idea that
increasing my exp rate of
experimentation increases my rate of
success and I think um you know the
podcast is an example of that for me
where we've really tried to experiment
as much as we can and that's led us to
um the growth of the podcast but when I
look across the greatest entrepreneurs
in the world they all seem to eventually
arrive at this conclusion that
experimentation really is the path to
finding the right answers in a world
where the right answer is changing so
much yep what is what is for for an
entrepreneur that's at the very
beginning for someone that's at the very
beginning or someone that's in the
corporate world what is it about
experimentation that you think is so
important to understand yeah I think
experimentation removes the
pressure
[Music]
to know or feel like you know what you
should be doing every moment of every
day um I think there's there's a sense
of like we kind of
conflate certainty or over certainty
with competence in a way that's not
necessarily functional whereas we're all
very imperfect oracles like we have
anticipations based on our knowledge our
experiences um the information that
we're collecting about the world around
us and we're all using that all the time
to try to predict what's going to happen
next just how our brains work it's what
our brains are
for
and I think there's a sense of we can do
that to a certain extent to eliminate
some of the more obvious errors that we
might make
but when it the when it comes down to
making a decision about something we've
never done before the honest answer to
will this work
is I don't know let's find
out and so there's a certain amount of
if that's the case if we can't be 100%
certain what's going to happen if we try
plan a or plan b or plan
C then there are a couple of ways of
approaching that one is is um by working
through scenarios of like let's just
imagine what would it look like if we
chose plan a let's play that out a
little bit let's try to make
anticipations about what what might work
or what might not um and let's compare
our different Alternatives and and see
what what looks the best feels the best
based on our anticipations right
now that's valuable but it can only go
so far because it relies on all the the
knowledge and EXP experience that we've
collected to date it doesn't account for
the knowledge and experience that we're
going to gain through the process of
making a choice and learning from the
choice and so one of my very favorite
mental models this comes from computer
science and and
decisionmaking is called the explore
exploit
trade-off
and this might be entertaining it comes
from decision research uh actually about
gambling of of all things like imagine
um imagine you walk into a casino and
there are a 100 slot machines that you
get to play for
free each of the machines has a
different
payoff but you don't know which one your
job is to find the very best
one how do you go about figuring that
out you try them all yeah you try them
so you start collecting information
right like the thing to do you when you
walk into the room you have no
information and so the first phase of
solving this problem is to explore you
just try a whole bunch of things and you
collect information every time you pull
this slot machine does it pay out or not
the longer you do this the more
information you collect and after a
certain period of time you start to get
a feel for patterns of some things seem
to be more Obviously good and other
things seem to be more obviously bad and
so over time you shift into the second
phase which is called the exploitation
phase so you take the knowledge and
experience that you have and you use it
to do the best performing thing that
you're aware of at the time more often
so you're playing the higher winning
slots
more the key is though the exploration
phase never stops
it just gets smaller over time so if
you're going to play this game optimally
there's always a certain Subs segment of
your time that's dedicated to exploring
to collecting information to trying new
things and I think this kind of General
way of going about the like this is what
early
career early entrepreneurship looks like
you're trying a whole bunch of very
different things sometimes in in
information about what works and what
doesn't so in the context of my candle
business yeah I'm going to I'm going to
try a bunch of different candles I'm G
to I'm going to try I think the key part
is we'll get like try other stuff but
the the part that I often see people
Overlook is what you actually said after
that which was collect information uhuh
which is you know people will listen to
this and they'll go C right guys they'll
come to the corporate office they'll go
right we're going to try a bunch of new
stuff but that is just wasted time if
you're not accurately correct collecting
the feedback yes because that's the
power the feedback is the power right
failure is nothing without feedback yeah
exactly and that's like so trying the
new thing and then paying very close
attention to what happens is the
valuable part so like in the in the
context of the candle business like
maybe you try 10 different scents at the
very beginning and you do small batches
of each one and how do I test that in
the context of a candle business how do
I test which is the best scent yeah so
um you could do all sorts of different
things like um early on you can get
direct feedback so follow up with people
ask so this is where the like
quantitative and qualitative research
studies can be very very valuable so
your first source of information is what
do people buy what's most appealing
where does where does that kind of
initial spark go you'll probably see a
distribution if you try 10 different
scents you you'll probably see a couple
very clearly stand out um and then
contacting customers directly to to
follow up what did you like what did you
not like um asking quite like we were
talking earlier about how did it smell
when it was lit how did it smell when it
was not lit like all of those things
spending a little bit of of time digging
into it in a deliberate systematic way
is how you get that information could I
do this before I even start selling
these candles I could I get 10 flavors
um put blank labels on all of them and
also try and create a situation where
you can't see it because again I'm
trying to limit the variable so I don't
want you to make your a decision based
on color put you in a pitch black room
this is actually what a lot of companies
do companies I've invested in called hu
does this they have these pitch black
rooms at their HQ which they invite
people into and these are like sensory
deprivation rooms I guess because you
there's no light there's no nothing you
can't see anything and in the context of
candles get 10 strangers off the street
to smell them all maybe 100 yep and just
to leave some scores yeah and then get
them to smell them when they're lit and
take that data as well you can
absolutely do that that's crazy it seems
so obvious but people don't do this
stuff yeah and it like it doesn't take
that much more work you're actually
limiting your risk because you're not
committing to you know one big batch of
something that you think will work yeah
you just experimenting a little bit more
broadly collecting some information and
allowing that information to guide your
future to decisions you talk about this
thing in your book called goal's law
yeah what's gal's law G's law is the
idea that any complex system essentially
evolved from a simpler system that
worked so if you want to create a
complex system that
works the easiest best thing to do is to
start with a simple system and then
build it up from
there and so this is like
when we're talking about this
hypothetical candle business we're not
talking about the multinational
distribution version of the candle
business quite yet there's a simpler
version of that business that must exist
in order for it to ever reach the level
of complexity and success that would
allow that to actually operate in the
world and
so one of the the reminders of of G's
law is that it's actually okay to start
simple straightforward strip it down
focus on the essentials start there
because every additional bit of
complexity needs to serve some sort of
purpose to justify its costs either
direct cost or time attention
opportunity
cost and so I think you to our earlier
conversation
sometimes complexity can be seen as as a
bit of a weird
status signal like I'm fancy I'm
sophisticated I think the more
sophisticated thing to do is to start
simple and keep it simple on purpose and
then make every additional bit of
complexity earn earn its way because
complexity isn't value this is I guess
this the the thing we get wrong we think
if we take a candle and we add some neon
lights to it and we add some I don't
know like a metal lid to the top of it
and then we add you can charge your
phone using the candle sure we think
because we've added more stuff people
are going to Value it more therefore
they're going to pay for it more yeah
but that's not necessarily how the world
works exactly you're going to screw up
so many things by adding those features
you know the best example I can give is
this whoop on my wrist which I'm an
investor in and Ambassador for so I'm
not Shilling it here but it's just a
something that always comes to mind
where you ask the founder of why you
didn't add
a watch to it why you didn't add the
time because you could simply just put
the time on there sure but he said
adding an additional feature changes the
frame and that really made me understand
this idea that more isn't more in as it
relates to value of products because the
minute you add the time to a whoop it
becomes a watch and then people have
these whole new set of expectations of a
watch it's a fashion item etc etc
interesting I've never heard that that
term before gouls law yeah we like it's
instructive that we're talking about
candles and not about some complex
mechanical device that you would bolt on
to a a building's a HB system to deliver
scent to the entire space right like
don't start there maybe start with a
candle and then at a certain point if it
makes sense to move in a in a direction
based on what your customers are telling
you that's fantastic but but keeping it
simple from the beginning is is the way
to go once upon a time if you had a
business idea it was exceptionally
difficult to get going but now in the
age of Shopify it is exceptionally easy
as many of you will know Shopify are
sponsor of this podcast if you don't
know Shopify it's an exceptionally
simple web platform for anybody that's
got an idea that wants to transact on a
global scale so things like these
conversation cards which we sell we've
sold using Shopify and it only took us a
couple of clicks to get going so why did
we choose Shopify for a number of
reasons but I think one of the big ones
which goes unappreciated is their
checkout system converts 36% better
compared to other platforms and here's
what I'm going to do to remove the cost
for you if you go to shopify.com Bartlet
you'll be able to try Shopify for
$1 a month I've seen Shopify completely
change people's lives and for many of
you I think it could change yours we
haven't spoken about this book though
first 20 hours yeah the first 20 hours
how to learn
anything and you have a TED Talk don't
you which was crazy yeah crazy crazy I
don't know if it's hit 40 million views
yet but PR pretty close if not 40
million views on a TED talk about the
first 20 hours how to learn anything
yeah why why did it do so well I think
for a couple of different reasons
because that's one of the best view TED
talks of all time yes that's crazy yes I
did a TED Talk nobody nobody watched it
I did like T talk are fun they're very
fun
um yeah so so the T talk for the first
20 hours did did very well and I think I
think part of it has to do
with it's something we all have in
common right like wanting or needing to
learn
something necessary useful fun cool not
really having a whole lot of time like
we're we're busy people we're busy
culturally um and so there's a bit of a
conflicting desire there of like yeah I
want I want to learn this but I I don't
have a whole a lot of capacity to spare
here um and then the the Genesis of the
book was was digging into some of the
psychology research that I that I
uncovered in the process of working on
personal MBA which was all about
learning new
things
and learning that the first few
hours of acquiring or learning any
particular
skill are
validated by research to be both the
most effective and the most efficient so
like your rate of improvement per time
of of uh or per unit of time and energy
invested at the very beginning of
Learning something new is extremely
high and so the question that that
sparked the research for the first 20
hours is is there a way that we can take
advantage of that consciously like is
there a way that we can
be very conscious and deliberate about
how we approach the process of learning
something new to
make to to to reap the maximum rewards
from that early stage of learning
something that you're not familiar with
and how good can we get in in that early
early window and in my research you can
go from from knowing absolutely nothing
about
something to being reasonably good in
much less time than than you would
expect so in my experience that's about
20 hours of focused deliberate practice
so call it 40 minutes a day for about a
month but but the narrative out on the
market is that you have to do 10,000
hours I mean this is everyone uses this
phrase in in society they say have you
done your 10,000
hours so you're telling me it's actually
20 hours is the key I'm saying different
goals based on different objectives so
um K Andrew Ericson was the researcher
behind the the 10,000 hour
rule and I think what's important to to
understand about that as a general
guideline is those studies were focused
on
Mastery of very competitive performance
oriented activities so call it so the
original studies were done um with
correlating practice hours to how high a
position do you have in like the first
violin and an orchestra sort of thing
and there was a correlation between like
how much do you practice how good to you
get that's all well and good and yeah
generally speaking the more deliberate
practice that that you have on on a
certain thing the the better you are
that is a true
thing to me
me I think it's valuable to shift the
spotlight from Mastery which is very
flashy very high status people who are
extremely skilled at things have a lot
of energy and attention around them
that's
great
um the type of skill acquisition that
most of us do most often throughout our
entire
lifespan is figure out how to do
something new for the first time like
dejing for me exactly yeah so how do I
do that then know you talk about these
10 major principles of Rapid skill
acquisition sure where I can learn
anything in 20 hours what are the most
important elements of this that I need
to know about if I'm someone who maybe
let's in the context of business has
never started a business in my life has
never run one before but I do want to
learn how to do it yeah the best way to
approach
this is
um there's a set of five recommendations
that that that go in
order and the first is like deciding
exactly what it is that you're trying to
do so in my experience like a lot of
people when they at the beginning of the
process of learning how to do
something the goal is way too big like
it's way too much way too soon
um whereas something something specific
concrete and approachable
is a way better place to start so um
dejing an entire set at a crazy music
festival is not the place to set the
goal right at the very beginning
it's I want to do my first song for
myself for me it was like I want to mix
that song into that song without it
sounding [__] totally exactly and that's
a great place to start because then it's
like okay this is a concrete specific
thing I know exactly what it looks like
you probably had some experience
listening to music of this type knowing
when things go well and when they when
they don't go well so you had a little
bit of like taste context
perspective and so deciding like okay my
early goal is to do this one specific
thing it's the first failure mode
because most people don't decide on that
concrete specific thing it's way way too
way too nebulous there's not enough to
work with so deciding is the first
part from
there most of the things that we we talk
about as skills
aren't single skills they're actually
bundles of smaller subskills that are
all important and you use in in in in
combination and so I'm not familiar with
DJ DJing so you can fill in the blanks
for me but like what were some of the
smaller things that you needed to learn
how to do as a thing to be able to like
mix one song into another well you need
to know music because music has
different I'm really going to but you so
DJs are literally going to laugh at me
in their WhatsApp groups but um
different beats per minute so every song
has a different beat per minute so you
need to learn about the different beats
per minute so you can merge them um
every song has a different key I think
that's kind of what they call it a key
so you have like an a a b a c and you
need to know that because before you
even get to mixing them in that's quite
important um so that's the like the
music side of thing then there's the
like the hardware itself which is
knowing how you see two songs coming at
the same time so you need to learn about
the hardware before you can mix two
songs together and then
um yeah actually interestingly in the
first hour of lessons I was expecting to
jump on the decks but the first hour of
lessons that I had was all about what is
music totally it was like an and how
does music sound good and this kind of
like eight bar thing that music goes in
so it was all about music itself I had
to start over there whereas I was
expecting to jump on the decks yes that
is a brilliant example of deconstruction
it's exactly what we're talking about so
the skill is not dejing itself it's
learning about Keys learning about Tempo
learning about transitions learning
about all of these smaller things that
you need to use in concert in order to
use them together to do this more
complex thing that you want to do so a
good teacher like the value of a good
teacher is they can help you with that
deconstruction like what are all the
little subcomponents that I need and
then the next layer down from that is
once you've deconstructed into the
smaller parts that's when you start to
do some research of which of these parts
are more important or less important
what should I focus on first what can
wait until later and so like Tempo and
musical Keys might be really important
and so it might make sense to to start
the process there let's get that really
solid we can wait for the hardware we
can wait for the plugins we can wait for
you know all of these things that comes
later get this stuff down solid first
nobody wants to wait yeah you know you
know what I mean that's the thing
like I
think there's an element to which that's
true there's also an element
to waiting here going about it in a
little bit more of a deliberate
fashion is what gives us an Advantage as
adult Learners like we can approach what
we're doing in in a strategic way we can
we can focus our time and attention on
the things that are going to have the
highest rewards first and so just a
little bit of impulse control of like
I'm gonna hold off on the buttons for a
couple hours to learn a little bit of
this first like that's where you
start figuring
out the inflection points in the skill
like the the thing that if you can just
wrap your head around this you can get a
huge Improvement in a very short period
of time and then the trick on the
research phase and this is the one that
I struggle with a lot because I like
research it's fun for me I can get stuck
here and so the trick is to
do just enough research to give
yourself context understanding what
you're looking for an idea of what it
looks like to do well or to not do well
and from
there you do just enough to know a
little bit of what you're doing and then
you actually start the focused
deliberate practice component because
that's where the skill is actually built
the skill is not built in research a lot
of people seem to get stuck on that
research part because they are you know
that people call them in culture
procrastinators but I had a conversation
with Nel and he said we're discomfort
avoiding creatures and he said whenever
you find yourself
procrastinating um it's basically
because there's discomfort associated
with the task at hand yeah so I had a
conversation with someone very close to
me recently actually yesterday and um in
our conversation they've been meaning to
do this online project for a long long
time for two years now and they've just
done everything but this online project
and when we kind of deconstructed it as
you said it was really
because they don't feel competent yeah
in several of the individual pieces so
they're just like researching themselves
to death and Mak taking no action
absolutely this is one of the biggest
the biggest barriers to learning as an
adult um adult Learners hate to feel
stupid we hate to to feel over our head
that we don't know what we're doing that
we're going to look bad in front of
others that there's some idealized skill
level that would represent success and
your early attempts look nothing like
that um there was an interesting study
that was done
about changes in um in artistic ability
and inclination over the human lifespan
and so when when you ask a bunch of
young
children are you an
artist every one of them answerers yes
yeah I create art that's it's what I do
and there's a certain threshold and it
usually happens around like the the
Middle grades uh junior
highish where people will start to say
like no this not something that I do and
there's a certain amount of
self-consciousness that develops in the
process of becoming an adult where you
can start to recognize that the
difference between what you can do and
what you want to do can be somewhat
extreme yeah and that self-consciousness
can be an active barrier to to getting
started in the first place um so by comp
comparison as well isn't it really
because yeah like comparison with other
people and then also comparison with
ourselves MH um so with other people
like early stages of skill acquisition
if you're comparing yourself to the
Masters in hours one two and three you
are not doing yourself any favors at all
um and then even
like I think that's a little bit easier
to avoid because I have only golfed a
couple times in my
life comparing myself to Tiger Woods
doesn't feel like even like conceptually
appropriate thing for me to do that
that's that's not difficult the harder
thing is comparing yourself to the other
person who has not golfed very much but
somehow hit a shot straight or or
whatever or like it feels like this
shouldn't be so hard for me why is this
so hard for me and then like the self
recrimination feedback loop starts and
so um I talk about in the in the first
20 hours
I call this the frustration barrier and
so generally speaking rough rule of
thumb hours 1 to 10 are brutal
emotionally speaking and so those th
that's the period of time where um
you're really frustrated things make
very little sense you're like I don't
know what a key is let alone a key
change what's a beat per minute and like
all of those self-consciousness circuits
are fully online fully firing
and um no matter how much you want
something those those first few hours
can be pretty brutal it's where most
people quit as well I guess yeah and and
that's why like it's an it's an
emotional management problem and so the
way to get around that also the way to
get out of research mode into doing mode
and this is this is where where the
title the first 20 hours comes from from
the first 20 hours refers to a
pre-commitment which is a very useful
piece of Behavioral
psychology that says that if you
pre-commit to taking a certain action
either a certain amount of times or
within a certain period of time either
to yourselves or ideally to other people
you're far more likely to actually
follow through on the doing of the thing
and so what I found is that in learning
a new skill making a pre-commitment that
no matter what I'm going to spend 20
hours doing this thing I might be
terrible this might be really
uncomfortable I might hate it I might
never do this again but no matter what I
care about this thing that I want to
learn enough that I'm going to invest at
least 20 hours of my life figuring out
if this is good if this works for me if
this is beneficial you said something
there which I think is key which is sure
you said this matters to me enough yes
that feels like it's a prerequisite
something that we really need to be
clear on before we even start yeah you
know because without that part you you
refer to it in your 10 major principles
of Rapid skill acquisition as choosing a
lovable project exactly yeah what does
that matter well it's because we're busy
it's because we don't have infinite time
energy and attention to do all the
things that might look feel sound fun or
interesting to us and
so there there needs to be at least some
minimum threshold of yeah this is
important to me to make some trade-offs
in other areas of of my life or
to um not watch that that movie or you
know not relax on on social media this
night I'm going to carve out some time
in my day and actually make this a
priority to sit down and do the work and
generally speaking I found that for
myself if I'm not willing to make the
pre-commitment to put at least 20 hours
into it that's a pretty good indication
that it is not important enough for me
to to invest time and energy and in the
first place we've been through most of
them there so number one is choose a
lovable project number two is focus your
energy on one skill at a time we said
that one number three is Define your
target performance level we talked about
that as well number four is deconstruct
the skill and subskills number five is
obtain critical tools which I guess is
the tools you need to do the practice
right yeah that's um kind of a subset of
removing barriers to practice okay and
so the classic example here is um so
many people in the world want to learn
how to play the
guitar and so the thing to not do is buy
a guitar and leave it in the case and
put it in uh a closet upstairs far away
because that just requires too much time
energy thought attention of like
remembering where it is going upstairs
grabbing the guitar getting it out of
the case getting all ready the best
thing that you can do is just make it
really really easy remove all the
friction from it get a little stand put
it right next to you know your living
room chair or couch where it's visible
Insight all you need to do is reach over
grab it and start it just makes it more
likely you're actually going to sit down
and do the work I think we've covered
all 10 there the last one is emphasize
quantity and speed yes yes mean so early
on in in the
process there's a tendency to like want
to do
it perfectly
sooner versus do it doing it in
perfectly more is actually more
beneficial and so in this case you for
for your
DJing mixing a lot of songs one to the
other is going to teach you a lot more
than just hyperfocusing on what song A
into song b and I'm going to work until
this is perfect you're just not going to
learn as much it's the variety the
exploration and the variety of
circumstances will teach you more about
what it looks and feels and sounds like
than trying to get too perfect on one
specific thing too quickly so like going
back to the the playing guitar thing
like get a bunch of tabs and learn how
to play a whole bunch of different songs
not super well because it's the
commonalities that you learn between the
different experiences those are the
things that really tune you into what's
really important the foundations of the
exactly like yeah what's a chord so for
what's a chord how do you change from
one chord to another
um tracking beats Tempo things like that
like those are the foundational skills
that apply across pieces of music and so
if you practice those first across a
wide variety of things that's just
optimizing that early practice around
things that will stick that you you'll
use a lot is there anything about the
subjec of learning and the first 20
hours that we've not discussed that you
think is especially important to close
off on if someone is really that they
want to learn a new skill and we're
thinking about where they are and where
they want to get to is there anything
else that you think they need to know
that we haven't covered I think that
this duv Tales a little bit with our
conversation around pon
spend more of your time doing weird cool
things like having that that exploration
budget of of really just like the
further a field you go the more things
you discover you'll find some surprising
commonalities that can be very
interesting and very cool um we were
talking about Apple
earlier one of the primary design in
irations for for the Apple Computing
system was Steve Jobs taking a random
calligraphy class in
college and it's not something that you
would put together in some sort of
obvious way but it was an important
enough influence of being able to take
some part of life and like apply it in a
different way in a different context to
another thing that that unlocked a lot
of value for a lot of people and so
for me like in in in the larger
sense I think it's just really valuable
to take a step back and think about like
what might I want to experience or what
might I want to learn how to do at some
point in my life just make a list could
and it can be I think self-editing here
is is not the way to go just like make a
list of all the things that that appeal
to you for whatever reason and then the
benefit of of a an approach like the
first 20 hours is it gives you a way to
make actually going about doing that
thing look and feel far more
approachable than it otherwise might be
when you said the thing about Apple
there in Steve Jobs going to that
typography calligraphy class it made me
it made me realize that in life there
really is no such thing as a waste of
time no there's really not because we
you know we think of oh chilling on
Netflix as a waste of time
but you can uncover something about
story arc from watching a movie that
makes you bring that into your creative
work or into an advertising campaign and
you know I think some actually it's
interestingly because if you think about
that example you gave of Steve Jobs in
that typography class had he just gone
to computer programming lessons yeah
about how to make software or Hardware
he wouldn't have stumbled across the
brilliant sort of insight that design
and typography and calligraphy really
really matters so these devices wouldn't
be so amazing so sometimes the most
valuable skills or inspiration we can
acquire exists clearly outside of the
bubble that we work in
totally Josh we have a closing tradition
on this podcast where the last guest
leaves a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to leave it
for oh excellent that's fun and the last
question that was left for you is oh
they finally got some finally someone
with good handwriting um I can read this
one without stuttering when you look
back on your life are there more things
you regret doing or regret not doing
please give some
examples wow they they went heavy
hitting on this one a stitch up I love
this stitches up the next cast no it's
good
um I think I
have more mistakes of commission things
I've
done than m Stakes of omission or or
regrets so generally speaking like if I
can anticipate that I'm going to regret
something I just try not to do that
thing in the first place
um
and I think some of those things like
can can fall into like daydreamy sorts
of oh what would have happened if I oh
yeah like hindsight yeah I mean almost
pure hindsight bias yeah which is also
one of the things I talk about in
personal NBA like it's a it's a thing so
um for me it
is like a lot of those regrets revolve
around um decisions that I made that
didn't work out
um
relationships um I have I have two kids
and the process of of raising kids is uh
hopefully informed trial and error but
like fundamentally trial and error and
um yeah that's part of the learning and
the experimentation too of just
like sometimes you have to make the call
on the Fly and sometimes you don't know
whether the call you made is is the
right one the best
one um do you have a mental model or
framework for decisions generally I
really like my fundamental way of
approaching decisions
is scenario planning like I really try
to think through all right what are my
options here how much detail can I
create around each of these potential
options what are the trade-offs are
there any really like hard trade-offs
things that must be accounted for and
then just really TR like in my current
understanding try to play out what's
likely to have happen down each of those
paths and then pick the one that seems
the best or the most appropriate given
the
circumstances Josh thank you thank you
for writing two exceptionally important
books and really you know I I'm a real
big Advocate and believer that we need
more entrepreneurs in the world but more
people just generally that understand
business even if they're going to
continue to work in corporate
environments because I think that's net
benefit Ben I think that's net
beneficial to Society at large our
society but also to individuals because
it empowers them to have more
optionality in their lives to be able to
make more choices about what they want
to do where they want to spend their
time and societies run on businesses you
know what we're doing now is a business
um the way that I'll get home tonight is
a business so understanding the
fundamentals the levers that are running
Society I think is only net positive for
everybody and that's exactly what the
personal NBA does it deconstructs what
businesses are and it helps us
understand the world around us and the
incentive structures of the world around
us in a really really empowering way so
thank you for writing a book that really
speaks to those people that maybe can't
afford to go and get a very expensive
ensive NBA one of those top schools um
but gives them an equally if not more
important understanding of business than
anything ever could it's an exceptional
book and I applaud you for writing it so
thank you thank you very much that was
very kind to say and I appreciate it
[Music]
a